Drupal 7 did not have Dynamic Page Cache. Nor was it possible to implement something like Dynamic Page Cache. Dynamic Page Cache is possible thanks to advances in Drupal 8's APIs. Everything that is rendered or used by rendering in Drupal 8, provides cacheability metadata. While rendering the individual parts of the page into the final response, cacheability metadata is gathered. It is thanks to this cacheability metadata that Dynamic Page Cache can cache pages, even for authenticated users.

For Drupal 7 there is the [Authenticated User Page Caching (Authcache)](/project/authcache) module. It achieves something similar, but at great cost. It requires a huge amount of work: all code (contrib & custom) must be analyzed to ensure all aspects that cause variations in the output (rendered pages) are taken into account. All of these factors must then be passed to Authcache so that it can calculate its authcache key correctly. The key properties that you specify there are conceptually similar to Drupal 8’s cache contexts. However, it is very easy to miss anything, because it’s you as a site owner that is responsible for identifying all the variations (and corresponding key properties) across all modules across all pages. By default, Authcache assumes the only thing that your site varies by, are a site’s base URL and a user’s roles. So unless your site is very simple (for example not even multilingual), you will need an enormous amount of knowledge/research in order to be able to use Authcache. See [Dynamic Page Cache in 8 vs. Authcache in 7](http://wimleers.com/article/drupal-8-dynamic-page-cache#authcache) for a more detailed comparison.